Improve Restate Server deployment docs (#60)
restatedev/docs-restate: docs/server/overview.mdx

sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "Learn how to deploy and operate a self-hosted Restate server."
icon: "book-open"
---

Restate can run as a single binary, making it easy to run it on a variety of platforms, from your local machine, to a VM, to Kubernetes.

This page gives an overview of the different deployment strategies and requirements.

<Card icon={"cloud"} href={"/cloud/getting-started"} title={"The easiest way to run Restate is with Restate Cloud."}>
    Keep deploying your code the same way you do now.
    Restate Cloud handles resilience, observability, and scalability for your code, with no additional infra.
</Card>

## Pre-requisites

You can deploy Restate on any platform that meets the following requirements:
1. **Compute**: a runtime environment where you can run the Restate Docker container or binary.
2. A **persistent volume** attached to store Restate's state. Recommended for cluster deployments. Required for single-node deployments.
3. (For clustered setups) An **object store** to store snapshots.

Restate can run as a single node or as a cluster. See [the trade-offs below](/server/overview#single-node-vs-cluster-deployments).

## Compute

> The easiest way to deploy and manage the Restate cluster and services is via the [Kubernetes operator](/server/deploy/kubernetes), since it gives you a lot of built-in functionality and tooling for deploying services, versioning, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to deploy and manage a Restate cluster and containerized Restate services is via the [Kubernetes operator](/server/deploy/kubernetes), as it provides the simplest experience for deploying Restate clusters, deploying services while managing versioning, and more.
```

    For more information, check out the [architecture reference](/references/architecture).
</Accordion>

## Object storage for snapshots

Snapshotting the content of Restate's state store, is recommended to enable faster failover. It is mandatory for cluster deployments, because it enables handing over partitions between nodes.

Restate supports snapshotting to object stores because they offer great scalability, durability, and cost and are available in all cloud providers and most on-prem setups.
Plus, the storage exists disaggregated from compute nodes, making the nodes stateless (or owning little state), which is highly desirable for efficient operations.

Performance requirements for snapshot storage are minimal. Snapshots typically occur only a few times per hour and are read rarely, so the snapshot destination's performance doesn't affect cluster performance.

See the [snapshot documentation](/server/snapshots#snapshots-2) for more information.

<Note>

>     It is possible to also keep the metadata store in object storage, but this has higher requirements than just S3-compatibility, because this critical component requires strong consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is also possible to use an object store for metadata storage, removing the need to run the stateful metadata-server role on some or all cluster nodes. However, this feature is only tested and supported on Amazon S3 at present, and it requires nodes to have low-latency access to the object storage service.
```
